# Threat Report: 2022-04-18: CatalanGate Extensive Mercenary Spyware Operation against Catalans Using Pegasus and Candiru


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2022-04-18
* Threat Level: 1 (High)
* Tags: tlp:white

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: https://citizenlab.ca/2022/04/catalangate-extensive-mercenary-spyware-operation-against-catalans-using-pegasus-candiru/
* link: https://catalonia.citizenlab.ca/
* vulnerability: CVE-2019-3568 — The 2019 WhatsApp Attack
* vulnerability: CVE-2021-33771 — Two zero-day vulnerabilities employed by Candiru to infect Windows systems

### Network activity
* pattern-in-traffic: /[uniqueid]/stadium/goblin — The scaffolding was fetched from /[uniqueid]/stadium/goblin. After performing tests, the scaffolding then fetches the WebKit exploit from /[uniqueid]/stadium/eutopia if tests succeed.
* domain: nnews.co — Pegasus Version 1
* domain: statsads.co — Pegasus Version 3
* domain: adsmetrics.co — Pegasus Version 3
* domain: redirstats.com — Pegasus Version 4
* hostname: statsupplier.cominfoquiz.net — Pegasus Version 4
* domain: 123tramites.com — Pegasus Version 4.5

### Other
* comment: ﻿﻿    The Citizen Lab, in collaboration with Catalan civil society groups, has identified at least 65 individuals targeted or infected with mercenary spyware.
* comment: At least 63 were targeted or infected with Pegasus, and four others with Candiru. At least two were targeted or infected with both.
* comment: Victims included Members of the European Parliament, Catalan Presidents, legislators, jurists, and members of civil society organisations. Family members were also infected in some cases.
* comment: We identified evidence of HOMAGE, a previously-undisclosed iOS zero-click vulnerability used by NSO Group that was effective against some versions prior to 13.2.
* comment: The Citizen Lab is not conclusively attributing the operations to a specific entity, but strong circumstantial evidence suggests a nexus with Spanish authorities.
* comment: We shared a selection of Pegasus cases with Amnesty International’s Tech Lab, which independently validated our forensic methodology.
* comment: The scaffolding was fetched from /[uniqueid]/stadium/goblin. After performing tests, the scaffolding then fetches the WebKit exploit from /[uniqueid]/stadium/eutopia if tests succeed.

### Payload delivery
* email-src: news105@tutanota.com — One of the targets, Pau Escrich, received an email impersonating the Mobile World Congress (MWC), with a link to tickets. Had he clicked on the link, his computer would have been infected with Candiru’s spyware. The email content appears to be copied from a legitimate Mobile World Congress email sent to news105@tutanota[.]com, which may be an email address used by the spyware operators
