# Threat Report: 2016-03-11: 'Surprise' Ransomware (2016-03-11)


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2016-03-11
* Threat Level: 3 (Low)
* Tags: tlp:white, circl:incident-classification="malware", malware_classification:malware-category="Ransomware"

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: https://www.virustotal.com/file/ddb0c54759fada5cff7bb60237ace601fcbd526208627fdee170d9ed41e91c7a/analysis/1457588432/

### Network activity
* url: http://pulseaudio.duckdns.org/pull.php — C&C (down)
* email-dst: nowayout@protonmail.com — Email to request payment info
* email-dst: nowayout@sigaint.org — Email to request payment info
* hostname: pulseaudio.duckdns.org — Imported via the freetext import.

### Payload delivery
* filename: DECRYPTION_HOWTO.Notepad — File displaying information
* malware-sample: surprise.exe|c34fb15c5f93c2bd1b8a1ba29566837f
* filename|sha1: <sha1>
* filename|sha256: <sha256>
* filename|md5: <md5> — Automatically added (via surprise.exe|bee22913ad9d6c9a37152aa65daa6bd9beca00eb)

### Payload installation
* text: What happened to your files ?
All of your files were protected by a strong encryption.
There is no way to decrypt your files without the key.
If your files not important for you just reinstall your system.
If your files is important just email us to discuss the price and how to decrypt your files.
You can email us to nowayout@protonmail.com and nowayout@sigaint.org 
Write your Email to both email addresses PLS
We accept just BITCOIN if you dont know what it is just google it.
We will give instructions where and how you buy bitcoin in your country.
Price depends on how important your files and network is.it could be 0.5 bitcoin to 25 bitcoin.
You can send us a 1 encrypted file for decryption.
Feel free to email us with your country and computer name and username of the infected system. — DECRYPTION_HOWTO.Notepad
