# Threat Report: 2015-06-05: OSINT Angler EK: More Obfuscation, Fake Extensions, and Other Nonsense by Talos


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2015-06-05
* Threat Level: 3 (Low)
* Tags: tlp:white, type:OSINT

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: http://blogs.cisco.com/security/talos/angler-update

### Network activity
* hostname: schapershonden-yhteenliittymin.inspirefilms.us — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: capsteads-tmenupopup.mercuryoutboardnc.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: mfrzdzjjpi.myftp.biz — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: traditionetgourmandises.fr — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: convenzioni.ording.roma.it — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: 99mkb.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: hostyoursitehere.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: alpha.akesha.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: andreiprundeanu.eu — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: 4042shopping.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: redstarfuochicinesi.it — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: alebehr.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: alchemyofpresence.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: blationmedia.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: jeanrey.fr — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: awynnejoinery.co.uk — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: americanfamilyenergy.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: bezpiecznaswinka.pl — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: buroroebers.nl — Imported via the freetext import.
* hostname: bebeamor.co.uk — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: jandchousecleaning.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: asambleadedios.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: buhtime.by — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: asadiag.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: beijerlandsekelnerrace.nl — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: atlantacustomwork.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: braingame.biz — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: doggonesigns.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: ancientvoyages.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: gonavarro.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: sweetthangzdesserts.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: brandgriffin.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: tarifair.fr — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: alsblueshelpt.nl — Imported via the freetext import.
* ip-dst: 78.46.250.103
* ip-dst: 194.6.233.7
* ip-dst: 94.131.14.23
* ip-dst: 94.242.198.221
* ip-dst: 173.227.247.35
* comment: The large majority of the domains are residing on shared IP address space. To prevent affecting non-malicious domains hosted on these servers the IPs have been excluded.

### Payload delivery
* sha256: <sha256> — Flash Exploit
* sha256: <sha256> — Cryptowall 3.0 Sample
