# Threat Report: 2016-04-21: Looking Into a Cyber-Attack Facilitator in the Netherlands


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2016-04-21
* Threat Level: 2 (Medium)
* Tags: tlp:white

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: http://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/looking-into-a-cyber-attack-facilitator-in-the-netherlands/

### Network activity
* domain: catholicsinaliance.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: localiser-icloud.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: inside-apple-localisation.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: inside-localisation-apple.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: account-web.de — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: securityicloudservice.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: bestapplestore.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: wsjworld.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: worldpoliticsreviews.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mailhost.university-tartu.info — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.armf.bg.message-id8665213.tk — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: setting-mail.ru — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: loqin-yandex.ru — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: play.gooqle.eu.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: eposta.basbakanlik.qov.web.tr — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: poczta.mon-gov.pl — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: yahoo.securepassword.info — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: posta-hurriyet.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: tbmm.qov.web.tr — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mailhost-ut.ee — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: privacy-facebook.me — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail-hurriyet.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: cc-yahoo-inc.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: e-post.byegm.web.tr — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: marktingvb.ml — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.byegm.web.tr — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.mofa.g0v.qa — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: webmail-gov.me — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: redirect2app.cf — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: int-live.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: options-mail.ru — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mycloud-mail.ru — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.g0v.me — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail-navy.ro — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: iraqinews.info — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail-justus.com.ua — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: reuters-press.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: help-yahoo-service.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.kuwaitarmy.gov-kw.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: nato-news.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: webmail.mofa.qov.ae — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mailmil.ae — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.rsaf.qov.sa.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mail.teiecomitalia.it — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: live-settings.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: military-info.eu — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: electronicfrontierfoundation.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: osce-press.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: grab2d.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: bit2ly.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mobile-sanoma.net — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: euroreport24.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: service-ukr.net — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: rn-mail.ru — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: eservicesystems.net — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: defensenews.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: aijazeera.org — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: itunes-helper.net — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: unbulletin.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: mfagreece.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: osce-info.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: privacy-yahooservice.com — Imported via the freetext import.
* domain: webmail-mil.gr — Imported via the freetext import.
* other: 185.117.[xx].20
131.72.[xxx].204
131.72.[xxx].174
185.141.[xx].191
185.82.[xxx].108
185.45.[xxx].218
185.117.[xx].154
185.117.[xx].5
185.82.[xxx].146
131.72.[xxx].123
131.72.[xxx].137
* domain: accounts-updated-confirmation.com
