# Threat Report: 2018-10-12: OSINT - New Sextortion Scam Pretends to Come from Your Hacked Email Account


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2018-10-12
* Threat Level: 3 (Low)
* Tags: tlp:white, osint:source-type="blog-post", circl:incident-classification="scam", veris:action:social:variety="Scam", riskiq:threat-type="scam", riskiq:threat-name="scam-scareware", veris:action:social:variety="Extortion", workflow:todo="add-tagging", workflow:todo="review"

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/new-sextortion-scam-pretends-to-come-from-your-hacked-email-account/
* text: Sextortion scams are when an attacker sends emails to people stating that their computer is hacked and that the attackers have been recording the screen and webcam as the user visits adult sites. The scammers then blackmail the recipients by stating they will release the videos if they do not receive a payment in bitcoins.

In the past, the sextortion emails would just include a target's password that the attackers found from a data breach dump in order to scare the victim into thinking that the threats were real. Now the scammers are also pretending to have access to the target's email account by spoofing the sender of the scam email to be the same email as the victim.

These scams have become very profitable, with scammers making over $50K in one week, and this new variant is no different. According to reporting by Daniël Verlaan, this new variant was first seen targeting victims in the Netherlands where the scammers made €40,000.

After learning about this new campaign, a security researcher known as SecGuru, who has been monitoring these scams, found a similar variant in English. SecGuru told BleepingComputer that the subject of these emails is "[email address] + 48 hours to pay".

For example, if my email address was example@example.com, the subject of the sextortion email would read "example@example.com 48 hours to pay" and sender of the email would be my own email account.

### Payload delivery
* attachment: dutch-version.jpg
* attachment: english-version.jpg
