# Threat Report: 2023-03-23: Dossier Center Investigation: Prigozhin's Cyber ​​Troops


## Key Intelligence
* Date: 2023-03-23
* Threat Level: 2 (Medium)
* Tags: tlp:white

---

## Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
### External analysis
* link: https://olgalautman.substack.com/p/dossier-center-investigation-prigozhins

### Network activity
* ip-dst: 78.47.65.117 — Among other things, Prigozhin’s employees also rented dedicated servers from the German hosting provider Hetzner for several years, including for use as a VPN and watching movies while “being on the territory,” that is, in Syria, Sudan, and the Central African Republic.
* ip-dst: 195.201.92.6 — Among other things, Prigozhin’s employees also rented dedicated servers from the German hosting provider Hetzner for several years, including for use as a VPN and watching movies while “being on the territory,” that is, in Syria, Sudan, and the Central African Republic.
* ip-dst: 148.251.46.106 — Among other things, Prigozhin’s employees also rented dedicated servers from the German hosting provider Hetzner for several years, including for use as a VPN and watching movies while “being on the territory,” that is, in Syria, Sudan, and the Central African Republic.
* ip-dst: 185.124.191.114 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 185.124.191.123 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 91.108.43.111 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 95.47.137.104 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 46.231.213.254 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 178.16.146.186 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 81.27.240.134 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 84.52.111.135 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 109.195.82.134 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 109.195.82.138 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 37.77.129.246 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 37.77.135.5 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 109.95.210.145 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 149.126.17.198 — permanent external IP addresses that have been directly used by Prigozhin's structures in St. Petersburg over the past few years
* ip-dst: 193.106.74.11 — previously it was possible to connect to the old, Moscow office, with VPN and RDP; Cisco Anyconnect was used to connect to the VPN.
